if you're on the freeway take the next
upcoming exit
but instead of getting off get right
back on the freeway
if the car does the same it's probably
tailing you
if you're in town go to an automatic car
wash
it'll give you a few minutes to calm
down and prepare
and if you still see the car around you
have
unwelcome company now that you've
confirmed you are being followed
don't panic sounds cliche but it
couldn't be more critical when you're
behind the wheel
panicking while driving is the worst
thing you can do
if you need a few minutes to calm down
drive for a bit
look around and remember where you are
try to find a safe place you can go to
a popular cafe a gas station or a police
department are
always the best places to keep an eye
out for and definitely
do not drive home the same rule applies
to your work or any relatives houses
chances are this is just some random
person who has no
personal information on you leading them
to your most frequented places
where you're more vulnerable will only
cause more problems
don't let yourself get cornered avoid
cul-de-sacs
small neighborhood roads ones without an
exit
parking lots all can be dangerous in
this situation
stick to streets you know so things like
that don't take you by surprise
if you're stopped at a traffic light or
stop sign leave some space between you
and the car in front of you always have
a getaway plan if you find yourself in
the worst case scenario
stay in your car and keep moving and
don't forget to lock all the doors and
roll up the windows
it can take mere seconds for someone to
get into an unlocked car while it
stopped
if this person rear-ends you at a
traffic light don't get out of the
vehicle
if they were following you they probably
did that on purpose to get you out
if they approach your car use that
getaway space you left in front of you
drive to well-populated roads it's
harder for this person to notice or keep
following you
when there's a lot of cars and witnesses
around
plus they're more likely to get
separated from you by a red light
most bad guys are scared off by busy
areas since their chances of getting
caught
increase don't acknowledge the pursuer
try not to stare into your mirrors don't
look behind your shoulder
don't try to talk if they only wanted to
scare you
they might just give up and drive away
if they know you've noticed them
they could start keeping a further
distance so it'll be harder for you to
get the details for the police
this is also a good time to notice and
remember details about the person that's
following you
the cars make and model the color the
license plate
get this valuable information but don't
stare while you're doing it
now if you're fully convinced someone's
following you
call the police if you have a passenger
with you
have them do it if you're alone use
hands-free technology or voice commands
let's say the green hat guy is brave and
decides to approach you and ask for
something
keep consistent eye contact if they ask
you for directions
don't look down or away from them to
reach for your phone
you'll become distracted just tell them
you don't know the way
they're asking is suspicious enough who
doesn't have a phone with maps these
days
if you're carrying books or shopping
bags be ready to drop them as soon as
you feel something's off
holding on to heavy items will slow you
down
now you'll need your keys place them in
your palm with the keys teeth
sticking out through your fist if worse
comes to worst
you'll have something pointy to defend
yourself with
so you can get away don't stay quiet
make a fuss as you try to leave and yell
fire instead of help
people react to that word more often
than a call for general help
plus nobody wants to chase someone
screaming at the top of their lungs
and drawing attention to themselves if
they're following you from a further
distance
then get your phone out and call the
police that's when you need to know all
those
details about the street you're on your
location and the buildings
stay on the phone with the dispatcher
and follow their instructions
another possible scenario is someone
following you in public
if that happens try to get to a grocery
store or anywhere you can lose yourself
in the crowd
if your jacket is a different color from
your shirt take your coat off
it'll be harder for this person to
identify you
if you walk into a restaurant or coffee
shop and your follower
is determined they'll walk in and wait
for you
one option is to go straight to the
bathroom and stay there for five to ten
minutes
they might get tired and leave if you
get out and they're still
there get in line order something and
casually
let one of the staff members know you're
being followed
they'll probably do something and keep
an eye out for you
grab your order and sit down get on your
phone and let your family or friends
know where you are so they can come and
pick you up or
keep you company while you wait try
these tricks
yawn if the person yawns too it means
they've been watching you
yawning is visually contagious pretend
to look at your watch
if they check theirs too they've got
their eyes on you
we instinctively mimic the person we
have our attention on
to trick them leave the cafe and walk a
little bit
down the street until they lose sight of
you then as soon as they come out
walk back into the coffee shop they'll
have no reason to walk back in with you
unless they were following you when
someone comes to pick you up
ask the staff to guide you to the back
exit just to be safe avoid walking alone
if you do keep to busy streets and
always be aware of your surroundings
you know all that stuff that lies beyond
your phone screen
just messing with you even if you're not
a millionaire who can be abducted for
ransom
you still need to take safety measures
so as not to get into this critical
situation
take your safety seriously don't walk on
your own along deserted streets or after
dark
muggers aren't the only criminals you
can come across in these circumstances
if you absolutely must go somewhere make
sure you travel with a companion
criminals are more likely to choose you
as a victim if you look lost and
confused
so before you go to a new place plan
your route
and inform your relatives or friends of
your plans
be cautious of strangers coming up to
you or loitering nearby
for no reason change your everyday
routine
use different routes during your commute
visit different grocery stores
and try to have lunch or dinner at new
places
let's imagine these preventive measures
didn't take effect
and criminals managed to get to you of
course it's a highly stressful situation
despite this try to keep your panic at
bay and
analyze the situation you need to
understand if there's a real possibility
of escaping in the first few minutes
after an abduction the first moments
after a kidnapping are the riskiest
if you feel there's no easy way to
escape all your attempts
won't be worth the risk however if there
are other people in the area
the first minutes after you've been
caught may be your only chance to get
away
try to attract the attention of
passersby someone will probably come to
your rescue
what if there was nobody around and you
didn't manage to escape
now you're in a car and your eyes are
covered with a blindfold
you're terrified your heart is
palpitating and you might be
hyperventilating
first of all concentrate and try to calm
down
after you do this it's time to apply
your observation skills
you have to remember as many details as
possible
to use this information later pay
attention to the kidnappers
to your surroundings and to the root the
car is taking
this knowledge may well help you to
escape it might also help your rescuers
when the time
comes you still need to be in survival
mode
and getting overly relaxed might make
you inattentive
have you offended anybody do you come
from a well-off family
maybe you look like someone who does if
so then they'll probably ask ransom for
you
which could be good news all they want
is money
pardon the easier said than done cliche
but try to stay positive
your calmness and friendly demeanor
could make the purple let their guard
down a little
they might slip up and not notice
something important
answer their questions wisely and
thoughtfully don't yell or threaten
show them that you're worthy of respect
yet harmless
you can even start a conversation but
don't overdo it
they know this trick and they'll assume
you're pretending to be polite
just to deceive them you can see a watch
on someone's wrist
or even use the sun if you just can't be
calm
solve mental puzzles imagine
conversations with your friends
think of your best day ever this will
distract you from severe stress
for such cases you need to have a code
word or phrase on hand
for example today i had a wonderful day
as always
a wonderful day as always is your code
that you're in trouble
if you somehow get a chance to call
rescue services but can't speak
leave the phone on so they can track
your call
if they don't want to show their face
that means they're planning on letting
you go without being identified
if you happen to see their face but they
didn't notice keep it to yourself
push-ups squats jumping jacks jogging in
place
anything you can do it's a nice
distraction and exercise improves blood
flow
that'll make your thinking sharper don't
discuss escape plans or secret
information with them
these people can rat you out in exchange
for their freedom
sometimes other hostages may be one of
the orchestrators in this scheme
just trying to find out important
information from you
you can ask for a blanket or a glass of
water
such requests help establish contact and
at least
make your stay a little more tolerable
you're driving home from work or a nice
shopping trip
and notice the fuel tank is showing
empty but i just filled it up this
morning
don't be so quick to assume there's a
problem with your car it could be the
sneaky work of burglars
really determined thieves will stake
your house out follow you to work or
your quick trip to the store
and drain all the fuel out of your tank
to delay you as long as possible
if you find yourself with an empty tank
even though you're sure you've filled up
recently
call your neighbors and have them check
on your place if your fears are
justified
call the police the appearance of a new
cleaner should alert you if you use
these services regularly
if your cleaner is changed the company
should warn you ahead of time
or check it yourself if there's no
information about this new face
then something fishy could be going on
and don't let the new cleaner in the
house in the first place
for that matter watch out for the
stranger at the door may
call themselves a plumber electrician
social worker you name it
we've thought of it if someone tries to
pull this stone on you
insist that they show you some id such
people
may seem helpful and professional but
they're quietly studying your home while
you're talking to them
even if you just open the door and stand
in the threshold
we can see your valuables from there
along this same line
you might get you're sitting there
peacefully when you hear your doorknob
wiggling and turning
your heart instinctively jumps in your
throat for a reason something's not
right
so you go to the door and ask without
opening it of course
can i help you the answer you're likely
to get is
sorry i'm visiting a friend must have
mixed the address up
and naturally they take off try to get a
look at their face through the people
if you have a door camera even better be
diligent about checking your lights
especially the outdoor ones
if they keep going out or the light
bulbs are always coming loose
don't immediately assume you're having
some electrical problems
thieves can unscrew them or cut the
wires we feel safer doing what we do in
the dark
[Music]
thieves can hang a flyer or a white
sticker on your door
they also might slide a thin piece of
plastic bottle in the doorway
this is how they mark houses that are
easy to get into
they know just by looking at your place
if you see anything weird like this
even if it's likely just a harmless add
remove it
if something hangs there for more than a
day burglars will assume
nobody's home besides flyers they may
write numbers
x's or strange coded symbols on the
house or door
keep an eye out if you still have a home
phone
do you get never-ending calls from
unknown numbers
this could be their way of checking what
times you're usually home or away
a burglar may immediately hang up or be
silent when you answer such a call
my advice don't answer them if it's
important the caller will leave a
message
if they claim to be your utility company
get proof
remember the thing about strangers at
your door same thing applies here
it could be a gate often left open trash
in your yard like
chocolate wrappers or juice boxes
watchers usually assume that if you're
in
you'll close the gate and pick up the
trash but
it's not just that they might be moving
some of your plant pots around to make a
blind spot
that way they can get in at night
without anyone seeing them
some might even throw rocks at the
pavement to see if you have a dog
or if your pet can hear the noise in the
front yard it's not just the occasional
bark
dogs can sense when shady things happen
if you take your pet for a walk and they
start barking right before going in or
when outside the house they know
something isn't right
the person watching your home might be
hiding somewhere nearby
and your dog can smell them watchers do
their own surveillance around the
neighborhood
they pretend to be a salesperson someone
wanting to use the bathroom
or someone whose car broke down on your
street
their goal isn't just to see if
someone's home but who
exactly is there and if they can get in
to inspect the house
they want to check for tvs car keys and
other valuables
you might notice someone taking pictures
outside your house or your neighbor's
place
while they're walking a dog or jogging
by they do this to inspect your entrance
better using the photos later on
when they're alone they analyze the
photos for blind spots
and how close houses are to each other
if they have less space between them
the neighbors won't spot them easily
alert your neighbors
and snap a few shots of them yourself if
someone suspects you're away on vacation
the best time to go by your home is in
the middle of the night
you might hear the doorbell ring at 2am
if they see lights go on they'll walk
away if not
that gives them the signal to enter
your pet's bark is like an alarm system
and it's the last thing a person
breaking in wants to hear
when watchers snoop around intending to
get in and spot your dog
they might open the gate to let them out
then they come by the next day to check
if they came back
if it's not there to alert you or your
neighbors they try to get in
you might notice a cookie under your
door mat this is an old trick
watchers use to find out if you're at
home and what time you get in
when you step on the mat the cookie
crumbles they return later to see if
someone stepped on it
if you don't notice it they'll
investigate further they'll put down
more cookies the next day
at different times to see what time
you're at home
if nobody steps on it they know the
house is empty
it could be a broken window a lot or a
loose fence
it's not just to see if you're at home
or if you have an alarm
but an excuse to get in they might put
on a uniform and come by an hour later
offering free repairs for your window
they'll use the excuse that they saw the
broken window while they were passing by
and wanted to make an offer because
they're new in the business
they'll come in to measure the frame and
while doing so
inspect the house for weak spots and
valuables
if your mailbox is brimming with
newspapers flyers and other
correspondence and junk mail
while you're away it also sends
potential burglars a message
that nobody's been home for a while have
someone collect your mail and
suspend your subscriptions if possible
to keep your mailbox from
advertising your absence since we're on
the topic of leaving your house for some
prolonged period of time
don't forget that it's best to keep this
information as private as possible
you can share vacation plans with your
trusted people especially if you need
them to check in on your house while
you're away
but social media is definitely a no-no
thieves are known to monitor other
people's posts about upcoming vacations
in order to find their next target
creepy
and here's another way you can make it
look like somebody's still home
when the house is actually empty i know
leaving
a light on isn't exactly the best for
your wallet but it's just for when you
go on vacation
and you can always put that light on a
timer that goes on
just at night if you're a dog owner like
me
one added bonus of having such an
awesome pet is that the sight or sound
of one can keep
burglars away and if you don't have a
pooch
just fake it put up a beware of dog sign
for instance
it'll make thieves less likely to choose
your house as their target
a built-in wall safe is the best measure
by far
but if you don't have one you can still
use your imagination
and find lots of places to stash your
valuables
a decoy book or toy is good enough or
you can even get more creative by making
your own hiding place
like a sliding pile in the bathroom
while burglars are more likely to break
into a house from the first floor
they can see an opportunity in a tall
growing tree
that looks right into a window on the
second floor
you'll do best by cutting or trimming it
so that no one can make their way in
from there
yeah this sounds pretty obvious but you
shouldn't forget that burglars love
silence they prefer to go about their
business quietly
so that they don't bring attention to
themselves makes sense right
so if they come in and trigger an alarm
that wakes everybody up
they've already failed and will want to
retreat as fast as they can